[MultiKueue] Document batch/Job managedBy field usage (#3454)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/multikueue/job.md

---
title: "Run Kubernetes Job in Multi-Cluster"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes Job"
weight: 2
date: 2024-11-05
description: >
  Run a MultiKueue scheduled Kubernetes Job.
---

## Before you begin

Check the [MultiKueue installation guide](/docs/tasks/manage/setup_multikueue) on how to properly setup MultiKueue clusters.

For the ease of setup and use we recommend using at least Kueue v0.8.1.

## Run Kubernetes Job example

Once the setup is complete you can test it by running the [`job-sample.yaml`](/docs/tasks/run/jobs/#1-define-the-job) Job. 

## ManagedBy

> The batch/Job can work in two different ways depending on the state of `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` feature gate.

Author: thanks

---
title: "Run Kubernetes Job in Multi-Cluster"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes Job"
weight: 2
date: 2024-11-05
description: >
  Run a MultiKueue scheduled Kubernetes Job.
---

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: I would sugger to reorganize this. As intro mention that the Kueue setup will depend on the Kubernetes version used on the cluster. In particular if the `JobManagedBy` feature-gate is enabled on the cluster.

Cluster with JobManagedBy enabled

* Mention that enabling the feature gate is supported only since 1.30 (add a note that is going to be enabled by default in 1.32) 
* In this setup we recommend enabling also `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` so that MultiKueue sends life updates reflecting the status of the mirror Job on the worker.

Cluster with JobManagedBy disabled

* For this setup 1.30 isn't required
* In this case `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` should be disabled in Kueue. MultiKueue will not perform life updates of the mirror Job from a worker cluster.

Author: done

Check the [MultiKueue installation guide](/docs/tasks/manage/setup_multikueue) on how to properly setup MultiKueue clusters.

For the ease of setup and use we recommend using at least Kueue v0.8.1 and Kubernetes v1.30.0.

## Run Kubernetes Job example

> Once the setup is complete you can test it by running the [`job-sample.yaml`](/docs/tasks/run/jobs/#1-define-the-job) Job. 

Reviewer 2: Could you embed the YAML file similar to https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/337e8712fbb0c582819effe780f70ad0429b7ceb/site/content/en/docs/concepts/topology_aware_scheduling.md?plain=1#L74?

The recommended way of running MultiKueue depends on the configuration of the `JobManagedBy` feature gate in your cluster. 

NOTE: The `JobManagedBy` feature gate is disabled in 1.30 and 1.31 by default, and will be enabled in 1.32 by default.

> ## Cluster with JobManagedBy enabled

Reviewer 2: Could we make this and `Cluster with JobManagedBy disabled` sections sub-section of the `Before you begin`?

Reviewer: +1, I would also suggest to move the example "## Run Kubernetes Job example" below

When `JobManagedBy` is enabled in your cluster we recommend configuring Kueue to enable the `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` feature gate. 

When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is enabled Kueue defaults the `spec.managedBy` field to `kueue.x-k8s.io/multikueue`. This allows to disable processing of the Job by the built-in controller, and allows MultiKueue

> to send live updates reflecting the status of the mirror Job on the worker.

Reviewer 2: It seems that this is an internal specification. What is the benefit for the batch users?
I guess that the users can observe the actual Job state via Management cluster, right?

Is there anything else?

Reviewer: > I guess that the users can observe the actual Job state via Management cluster, right?

Yes, but this is very important. Basically we want to make MultiKueue transparent to the end-users. 
Note that there might be many worker clusters. Without the feature, the user needs to check the current status a user needs to inspect the workload object to identify which worker is running the Job.
Then, lookup the Job on the worker cluster, this is tedious for manual job. 

Also it is very important for automations. For example some companies may have in-house built UIs to track the Job progress. Without the feature they would need to complicate the code of the integrations and make 
it MultiKueue-aware. With this feature the UI code does not need any adjustments.

## Cluster with JobManagedBy disabled

When `JobManagedBy` is disabled in your cluster you should make sure `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` 
is also disabled in Kueue. 

This is important so that MultiKueue does not conflict with the build-in Job controller
on the management cluster. 

Note that Kueue will not perform live updates of the mirror Job from a worker 

> cluster.

Reviewer 2: As I mentioned above, this seems to be an internal specification, and it is not clear to the batch users what a mirror job is.

I guess that we can say "As limitations of this deploy mode, you need to access worker clusters to obtain the actual Job state".

Check the [Change the feature gates configuration](/docs/installation/#change-the-feature-gates-configuration) for setup details.

In this setup we recommend enabling also MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy 

When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is enabled, Kueue defaults the `spec.managedBy` field to `kueue.x-k8s.io/multikueue`.
This is the recommended option, which allows MultiKueue to send life updates reflecting the status of the mirror Job on the worker.

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
Note: The MultiKueue admission check controller will `Reject` the workloads owned by a batch job that does not have the `spec.managedBy` field set to `kueue.x-k8s.io/multikueue`, causing them to be marked as `Finished` with an error indicating the cause.
{{% /alert %}}

When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is disabled, the management cluster keeps the multikueue AdmissionCheckState `Pending` and therefore the Job suspended, during the remote job execution.
The Job status sync happens only when the remote workload is marked as `Finished`.

## Cluster with JobManagedBy disabled

> There is no requirement on Kubernetes version other than required for [Kueue installation](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/installation/#before-you-begin).
> 
> In this case `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` should be disabled in Kueue. MultiKueue will not perform life updates of the mirror Job from a worker cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `JobManagedBy` is enabled in your cluster you should make sure  `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` 
is disabled in Kueue. This is important so that MultiKueue does not conflict with the build-in Job controller
on the management cluster. Note that Kueue will not perform life updates of the mirror Job from a worker 
cluster.
```

---
title: "Run Kubernetes Job in Multi-Cluster"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes Job"
weight: 2
date: 2024-11-05
description: >
  Run a MultiKueue scheduled Kubernetes Job.
---

## Before you begin

Check the [MultiKueue installation guide](/docs/tasks/manage/setup_multikueue) on how to properly setup MultiKueue clusters.

For the ease of setup and use we recommend using at least Kueue v0.8.1.

The recommended way of running MultiKueue depends on the configuration of the `JobManagedBy` feature gate in your cluster. 

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
The `JobManagedBy` feature gate is disabled in 1.30 and 1.31 by default, and will be enabled in 1.32 by default.
{{% /alert %}}

### Cluster with JobManagedBy enabled

When `JobManagedBy` is enabled in your cluster we recommend configuring Kueue to enable the `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` feature gate. 

> When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is enabled the current status of a Job being executed by MultiKueue on a worker cluster is live-updated on the management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is enabled, the current status of a Job being executed by MultiKueue on a worker cluster is live-updated on the management cluster.
```
nits.

---
title: "Run Kubernetes Job in Multi-Cluster"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes Job"
weight: 2
date: 2024-11-05
description: >
  Run a MultiKueue scheduled Kubernetes Job.
---

## Before you begin

Check the [MultiKueue installation guide](/docs/tasks/manage/setup_multikueue) on how to properly setup MultiKueue clusters.

For the ease of setup and use we recommend using at least Kueue v0.8.1.

The recommended way of running MultiKueue depends on the configuration of the `JobManagedBy` feature gate in your cluster. 

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
The `JobManagedBy` feature gate is disabled in 1.30 and 1.31 by default, and will be enabled in 1.32 by default.
{{% /alert %}}

### Cluster with JobManagedBy enabled

When `JobManagedBy` is enabled in your cluster we recommend configuring Kueue to enable the `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` feature gate. 

When `MultiKueueBatchJobWithManagedBy` is enabled the Job is processed by MultiKueue, which effectively reflects the job state in the management cluster.

So regardless of the number of clusters, all states of all jobs are available in the management cluster.

> This in turn allows you to track the progress of a job as it occurs.

Reviewer: wdyt @tenzen-y ? We write about performing the lookup in the section below.

> This in turn allows you to track the progress of a job as it occurs.

Reviewer 2: > the progress of such a Job

Could we make it more clarify? The current description looks like that the MultiKueue gives us another progress tracking mechanism. But we do not provide the mechanism, they need to watch Job status.

> Job status (`.status`)
